** Setting Up Redux Toolkit in a React App **
--> _ Table of Contents_ :

- Introduction
- Prerequisites
- Installation
- Setting Up Redux Toolkit
- Create Redux Slice
- Configure Redux Store
- Provide Redux Store to React App
- Using Redux in Components
- Example Usage
- Conclusion

--> _ Introduction_ :
Redux Toolkit is the official, recommended way to use Redux in a React application. It simplifies the setup and structure of a Redux store while providing powerful features like slices, thunks, and built-in middleware for asynchronous actions.

- This guide will walk you through setting up Redux Toolkit in a React application.

--> _ Prerequisites_ :
Make sure you have the following tools installed:

Node.js (version 12.x or later)
npm or yarn package manager
React app created using tools like create-react-app or Next.js

--> _ Installation_ :
To start using Redux Toolkit in your React project, follow these steps:
Open your project directory in the terminal.

Run the following command to install Redux Toolkit and react-redux:
- npm install @reduxjs/toolkit react-redux

Or if you're using yarn:
- yarn add @reduxjs/toolkit react-redux


--> _ Setting Up Redux Toolkit_ :
1. Create Redux Slice
Redux Toolkit uses a concept called "slices" to manage pieces of the global state. A slice contains state, reducers, and action creators.

Create a file called counterSlice.ts (or .js for non-TypeScript projects) inside a redux folder (you can place this folder in src).

- src/redux/counterSlice.ts
import { createSlice } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";

- Initial state for the counter slice
const initialState = {
  value: 0,
};

- Create the counter slice
export const counterSlice = createSlice({
  name: "counter",
  initialState,
  reducers: {
    increment: (state) => {
      state.value += 1;
    },
    decrement: (state) => {
      state.value -= 1;
    },
    reset: (state) => {
      state.value = 0;
    },
  },
});

- This slice includes:

initialState: Defines the starting value of the slice.
reducers: Functions that modify the state. For example, increment increases the counter.
actions: Automatically generated by Redux Toolkit (e.g., increment, decrement, and reset).

2. Configure Redux Store
Now that we have a slice, we need to configure the Redux store.

Create a store.ts (or .js) file in the same redux folder:

- src/redux/store.ts
import { configureStore } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";
import counterReducer from "./counterSlice";

export const store = configureStore({
  reducer: {
    counter: counterReducer,
  },
});

- Export RootState and AppDispatch for TypeScript (if applicable)
export type RootState = ReturnType<typeof store.getState>;
export type AppDispatch = typeof store.dispatch;

NB: The configureStore function sets up the Redux store and allows us to combine multiple slices (if you need
to manage other state like user, products, etc.).

3. Provide Redux Store to React App
In order for your React app to use the Redux store, you need to wrap your app with the Provider component from react-redux.

Open your index.tsx (or index.js for non-TypeScript apps) and update it:

- src/index.tsx
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";
import App from "./App";
import { Provider } from "react-redux";
import { store } from "./redux/store";

ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <App />
  </Provider>,
  document.getElementById("root")
);

- Now, the Redux store is available throughout your app.


--> _ Using Redux in Components_ :
- To interact with the Redux store in your React components, you will need to:

Read state from the store using the useSelector hook.
Dispatch actions to update state using the useDispatch hook.
Example Component:

- src/components/Counter.tsx
import React from "react";
import { useSelector, useDispatch } from "react-redux";
import { increment, decrement, reset } from "../redux/counterSlice";
import { RootState } from "../redux/store";

const Counter = () => {
  const dispatch = useDispatch();
  const count = useSelector((state: RootState) => state.counter.value);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Counter: {count}</h1>
      <button onClick={() => dispatch(increment())}>Increment</button>
      <button onClick={() => dispatch(decrement())}>Decrement</button>
      <button onClick={() => dispatch(reset())}>Reset</button>
    </div>
  );
};

export default Counter;

Here’s what’s happening in the component:
- useSelector: Selects the current counter value from the Redux state.
- useDispatch: Dispatches actions (e.g., increment, decrement, reset) to update the state.

Example Usage
Import and use the Counter component in your App.tsx:

- src/App.tsx
import React from "react";
import Counter from "./components/Counter";

const App = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to Redux Toolkit</h1>
      <Counter />
    </div>
  );
};

export default App;

NB: When you run the app, you’ll see the counter display and buttons that update the state using Redux Toolkit.
- And redux only run in " use client " not in " use server " while using next js.
- The redux dispatch is used to update the state and the useSelector is used to read the state.

--> _ Conclusion_ :
Congratulations! You've successfully set up Redux Toolkit in your React app. From here, you can easily add more slices, manage state, and scaleyour application.

For more details, refer to the official Redux Toolkit Documentation.
[text](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/tutorials/quick-start)

@copyright 2024 by [Way to India](https://waytoindia.com)
